README.md, before:

# Scheduler

All in one scheduler

- just run a single script that uses this class in your system's scheduler (less config work)
- configure multiple tasks in yml (syncable on multiple devices)
- also supports advanced features like running a task based on likeliness

dev info see [dev](dev.md)


## Usage

Config see below or [sample](debug/config.yml)

```bash
> composer require symfony/yaml
```

```php
$config    = Yaml::parseFile('config.yml');
$scheduler = new Scheduler( $config['scheduler'], 'cache.json', [
  'user'    => '/home/username',  // placeholders for field file: {user}/file.txt
  'scripts' => '/var/scripts'
], 'myCallback');                 // runs when a task is finished with state = success|error (see below)

try {
  $scheduler->run();
}
catch( Exception $e ) {
  error_log("Scheduler error: " . $e->getMessage());
  exit();
}
```

**Error handling**

- We assume that called scripts handle error cases themselfs
- As a fallback we catch errors in Scheduler and trigger the callback with state = error
- Errors in Scheduler itself: handle via try catch or your own error handler


## Sample

```bash
> cd debug
> composer install
```

![alt text](misc/img.gif)


## Config

see [sample](debug/config.yml)

- `type`:       Type of task ('Command', 'Process', 'URL' or 'Script')
  - Command:    runs a command in the shell, returns output
  - Process:    runs a process in the background, returns output
  - URL:        calls an URL, returns response or HTTP error
  - Script:     requires a script, returns output and contents of $return
- `name`:       Unique identifier for the task
- command to run (supports placeholders)
  - `command`:  Tasks of type Command or Process (standalone) only
    - start minimized
      ```yml
      command: 'start /min "" "php myscript.php"'
      ```
  - `url`:      URL tasks only: Full URL without query
  - `file`:     Script tasks only: Script file
- `workingDir`:  (Optional) Directory to run the command, process, or script from
  - For Script tasks, if not specified, the script's directory will be used
  - For Command and Process tasks, if not specified, the current directory will be used
- `args`:       (Optional) Script args or query parameters
  - args may be numeric array or have keys (just for information)
- `startDate`:  (Optional) YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS task will only run from this time onwards
  - you may edit this at any time (when a task already has been run)
- `interval`:   Time interval between runs: 5min, 10min, 30min, hourly, daily, weekly, monthly (5sec, 10sec used for debugging)
- `likeliness`: (Optional) Percentage chance (1-100) of running when due


## Callback fields

The callback function receives task execution results with these arguments

```php
function myCallback( string $state, array $result, float $time, array $task )
```

- `state`:  'success' or 'error'
- `time`:   execution time in seconds
- `config`: task configuration (see above)

**URL tasks**

- state = success
  - `$result['response']`:  response body
  - `$result['http_code']`: HTTP status code (200-399)
- state = error
  - `$result['error']`:     curl error or HTTP error message
  - `$result['response']`:  response body if available
  - `$result['http_code']`: HTTP status code (400+)

**Script tasks**

- state = success
  - `$result['output']`: captured output (echo, print etc.)
  - `$result['return']`: value of $return variable if set in script
- state = error
  - `$result['error']`:  exception message or PHP error


LICENSE
----------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (C) Walter A. Jablonowski 2024, free under MIT [License](LICENSE)

This app is build upon PHP and free software (see [credits](credits.md))

[Privacy](https://walter-a-jablonowski.github.io/privacy.html) | [Legal](https://walter-a-jablonowski.github.io/imprint.html)

Commit message:

Enabled placeholders for working dir

README.md, after:

# Scheduler

All in one scheduler

- just run a single script that uses this class in your system's scheduler (less config work)
- configure multiple tasks in yml (syncable on multiple devices)
- also supports advanced features like running a task based on likeliness

dev info see [dev](dev.md)


## Usage

Config see below or [sample](debug/config.yml)

```bash
> composer require symfony/yaml
```

```php
$config    = Yaml::parseFile('config.yml');
$scheduler = new Scheduler( $config['scheduler'], 'cache.json', [
  'user'    => '/home/username',  // placeholders for field file: {user}/file.txt
  'scripts' => '/var/scripts'
], 'myCallback');                 // runs when a task is finished with state = success|error (see below)

try {
  $scheduler->run();
}
catch( Exception $e ) {
  error_log("Scheduler error: " . $e->getMessage());
  exit();
}
```

**Error handling**

- We assume that called scripts handle error cases themselfs
- As a fallback we catch errors in Scheduler and trigger the callback with state = error
- Errors in Scheduler itself: handle via try catch or your own error handler


## Sample

```bash
> cd debug
> composer install
```

![alt text](misc/img.gif)


## Config

see [sample](debug/config.yml)

- `type`:       Type of task ('Command', 'Process', 'URL' or 'Script')
  - Command:    runs a command in the shell, returns output
  - Process:    runs a process in the background, returns output
  - URL:        calls an URL, returns response or HTTP error
  - Script:     requires a script, returns output and contents of $return
- `name`:       Unique identifier for the task
- command to run (supports placeholders)
  - `command`:  Tasks of type Command or Process (standalone) only
    - start minimized
      ```yml
      command: 'start /min "" "php myscript.php"'
      ```
  - `url`:      URL tasks only: Full URL without query
  - `file`:     Script tasks only: Script file
- `workingDir`: (Optional) supports placeholders, for all task types except URL
  - if unspecified, the current directory will be used
- `args`:       (Optional) Script args or query parameters
  - args may be numeric array or have keys (just for information)
- `startDate`:  (Optional) YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS task will only run from this time onwards
  - you may edit this at any time (when a task already has been run)
- `interval`:   Time interval between runs: 5min, 10min, 30min, hourly, daily, weekly, monthly (5sec, 10sec used for debugging)
- `likeliness`: (Optional) Percentage chance (1-100) of running when due


## Callback fields

The callback function receives task execution results with these arguments

```php
function myCallback( string $state, array $result, float $time, array $task )
```

- `state`:  'success' or 'error'
- `time`:   execution time in seconds
- `config`: task configuration (see above)

**URL tasks**

- state = success
  - `$result['response']`:  response body
  - `$result['http_code']`: HTTP status code (200-399)
- state = error
  - `$result['error']`:     curl error or HTTP error message
  - `$result['response']`:  response body if available
  - `$result['http_code']`: HTTP status code (400+)

**Script tasks**

- state = success
  - `$result['output']`: captured output (echo, print etc.)
  - `$result['return']`: value of $return variable if set in script
- state = error
  - `$result['error']`:  exception message or PHP error


LICENSE
----------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (C) Walter A. Jablonowski 2024, free under MIT [License](LICENSE)

This app is build upon PHP and free software (see [credits](credits.md))

[Privacy](https://walter-a-jablonowski.github.io/privacy.html) | [Legal](https://walter-a-jablonowski.github.io/imprint.html)
